agile.md, before:

# Agile development process

I have used GitHub Projects to create a kanban board / collection of initial user stories to facilitate the implementation of agile development.

Three different EPICS were drafted. The EPICs are then broken down into user stories. 

The EPICS are:
-	Django setup and administrator/superuser
-	EPIC for unregistered users
-	EPIC for registered users

Some of the user stories that pertain to a certain EPIC may overlap with another EPIC. The reason is that some functionality available for superuser/admin likewise overlaps with the features planned for registered users.
GitHub projects was used to create the Kanban board to track the development of the user stories created for this project. The user stories are listed in the Kanban board created.

![Initial_Kanban_Board](docs/agile/initial_kanban_board_at_start_of_project.png)

The Kanban board can be found here: 
[Project 24 by Werner-Staeblein](https://github.com/users/Werner-Staeblein/projects/24)

![Initial_Labeling](docs/agile/initial_labeling_at_start_of_project_part1.png)
![Initial_Labeling](docs/agile/initial_labeling_at_start_of_project_part2.png)

## Iteration 1 | Milestone 1

My first sprint was planned to take place between Aug. 5, 2024 and Aug. 12, 2024. For my first iteration I created milestone 1 with a total of 8 users stories from my kanban board to be worked on.
The distribution of "must have" to "could have"/"should have" was not the perfect 60%/40% at this stage but three of eight user stories were assigned could have/should have for iteration 1 as it was
not perfectly clear at the start of the iteration whether users stories 6,7, and 8 can be completed in the timeframe set for the first sprint (iteration 1).

![Iteration_1_milestone](docs/agile/iteration_1_milestone.png)

Documentation of progress:

- Despite the hickup of renaming my Django testing folder with subsequent adjustments to wsgi, settings, asgi to capture the new named "assigned" to the Django project, the first iteration proceeded surprisingly well. The "must have" user stories were closed on the second day into the sprint/iteration 1
- Progress with iteration 1 supported by careful planning of all users stories in advance and revisiting the LMS material notes
- Creation of content for blog app most time-consuming user story in Iteration 1 as expected with almost one working day spent on collecting data and writing the blog app content
-

Commit message:

Update agile.md with documentation of iteration 1 progress with iteration 1 nearing completion

agile.md, after:

# Agile development process

I have used GitHub Projects to create a kanban board / collection of initial user stories to facilitate the implementation of agile development.

Three different EPICS were drafted. The EPICs are then broken down into user stories. 

The EPICS are:
-	Django setup and administrator/superuser
-	EPIC for unregistered users
-	EPIC for registered users

Some of the user stories that pertain to a certain EPIC may overlap with another EPIC. The reason is that some functionality available for superuser/admin likewise overlaps with the features planned for registered users.
GitHub projects was used to create the Kanban board to track the development of the user stories created for this project. The user stories are listed in the Kanban board created.

![Initial_Kanban_Board](docs/agile/initial_kanban_board_at_start_of_project.png)

The Kanban board can be found here: 
[Project 24 by Werner-Staeblein](https://github.com/users/Werner-Staeblein/projects/24)

![Initial_Labeling](docs/agile/initial_labeling_at_start_of_project_part1.png)
![Initial_Labeling](docs/agile/initial_labeling_at_start_of_project_part2.png)

## Iteration 1 | Milestone 1

My first sprint was planned to take place between Aug. 5, 2024 and Aug. 12, 2024. For my first iteration I created milestone 1 with a total of 8 users stories from my kanban board to be worked on.
The distribution of "must have" to "could have"/"should have" was not the perfect 60%/40% at this stage but three of eight user stories were assigned could have/should have for iteration 1 as it was
not perfectly clear at the start of the iteration whether users stories 6,7, and 8 can be completed in the timeframe set for the first sprint (iteration 1).

![Iteration_1_milestone](docs/agile/iteration_1_milestone.png)

Documentation of progress:

- Despite the hickup of renaming my Django testing folder with subsequent adjustments to wsgi, settings, asgi to capture the new named "assigned" to the Django project, the first iteration proceeded surprisingly well. The "must have" user stories were closed on the second day into the sprint/iteration 1
- Progress with iteration 1 supported by careful planning of all users stories in advance and revisiting the LMS material notes
- Creation of content for blog app most time-consuming user story in Iteration 1 as expected with almost one working day spent on collecting data and writing the blog app content
- Iteration 1 was completed on Aug. 8, 2024 and much faster than expected. The intial "could have"/"should have" user stories have proven to be less time-consuming than planned
- User Story 8 was moved back to the Kanban board to be worked on with the remaining user stories in subsequent iterations. User Story 8 covers the creation of content for the blog app and further content in addition to that already uploaded via fixtures/posts.json in iteraion 1 may be added in upcomin iterations

![Milestone_Board_after_Iteration_1](docs/agile/iteration_1_milestone_board_after_iteration_1_completed.png)
